It was the best of times, it was the worst of times, it was the age of wisdom,
it was the age of foolishness, it was the epoch of belief, it was the epoch of
incredulity, it was the season of Light, it was the season of Darkness, it was
the spring of hope, it was the winter of despair.

There were a king with a large jaw and a queen with a plain face on the throne
of England; there were a king with a large jaw and a queen with a fair face on
the throne of France. In both countries it was clearer than crystal to the lords
of the State preserves of loaves and fishes that things in general were settled
for ever.

It was the year of Our Lord one thousand seven hundred and seventy-five.
Spiritual revelations were conceded to England at that favoured period, as at
this. Mrs Southcott had recently attained her five-and-twentieth blessed
birthday, of whom a prophetic private in the Life Guards had heralded the
sublime appearance by announcing that arrangements were made for the swallowing
up of London and Westminster.

Even the Woodman Fate cut down the trees for the scaffold, and the Farmer Death
sowed the seed. Along the Paris streets, the death-carts rumble, hollow and
harsh. Six tumbrels carry the day's wine to La Guillotine. All the footsteps
on their way to La Guillotine do not sound so terrible as these dumb tumbrels.
Charles Darnay had once yielded to the attraction of the stream of time, and
yet returned to France of his own will. He was now brought back, and brought
back with a new companion.


Sydney Carton was a man who had no ambitions. He had drunk away his prospects;
he was not a man of business; he was not a man of letters; he was not a man of
law, though he wore the gown and wig with a certain ease. He was a man of one
idea — and that idea was Lucie Manette, the woman he loved above all others.

Doctor Manette had been imprisoned in the Bastille for eighteen years. He was a
white-haired man, bent and feeble, whose mind had suffered greatly during his
long captivity. His daughter, Lucie Manette, nursed him back to health after
his release. She was a golden-haired young woman of great beauty and compassion.

Madame Defarge knitted ceaselessly in the wine-shop. Her needles clicked like
the teeth of a trap. She recorded the names of her enemies in her knitting —
a cipher known only to herself and her husband Monsieur Defarge. Revenge was
her religion, her vocation, and her life.
